=head1 NAME

funcmod - CLOS like modifiers for bash functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 source funcmod.sh

 func () { echo "func" ; }

 bfunc () { echo "before" ; }

 afunc () { echo "after" ; }

 rfunc () {
   local orig=$1
   shift

   echo "before orig"

   # invoke original function and save return value
   local rval=0
   $orig "$@" || rval=$?

   echo "after orig"

   # return original return value
   builtin return $rval
 }


 before func bfunc
 after func afunc
 around func rfunc

 func

Results in

 before
 before orig
 func
 after orig
 after

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<funcmod> provides
L<CLOS|https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Lisp_Object_System>-like
modifiers for bash functions.  It wraps the original function and
calls the user specified functions at the specified entry points when
the original function is invoked.

A function may be modified more than once (and by the same modifier).

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 before

  before func1 [func2 ... ]   modifier

The function C<modifier> is called before the function it is
modifiying.  Its return value is totally ignored.  It receives the
same arguments as the function it is modifying.  The modifier
B<cannot> change the arguments passed to the original function.

=head2 after

  after func1 [func2 ... ]   modifier

The function C<modifier> is called after the function it is
modifiying.  Its return value is totally ignored.  It receives the
B<original> arguments passed to the function it is modifying.

=head2 around

  around func1 [func2 ... ]   modifier

C<modifier> is called instead of the function it is modifying.  The
name of the function that it is modifying is passed as the first
argument (this will be a mangled name).

This modifier may be used to alter the arguments passed to the function.

Be careful to pass on the return value of the original function if
required (see the L</SYNOPSIS> for one approach).


=head1 AUTHOR

Diab Jerius <djerius@cfa.harvard.edu>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2016 by Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The GNU General Public License, Version 3, June 2007


